foreign
welcome to the smart economy podcast a
production of neonewstoday.com I'm your
host Dylan Grabowski in this episode of
the smart economy podcast I sat down and
spoke with Andrew Lawrence the CEO and
co-founder of senso senso aims to
provide self-custody and private Key
Management Solutions for organizations
to better manage and protect their
digital assets that they hold to
differentiate itself from other
Solutions senso utilizes a biometric
authentication scheme using mobile
phones to provide additional Security in
this conversation Andrew and I discuss
how we recognized blockchain's utility
early on in 2012 when thinking back on
his experiences with derivatives markets
the importance of focusing on open
source development and the immutability
of information stored on chain how the
glacial bureaucratic case of
institutions might have been a blessing
in disguise senso's outlook on which
blockchain the market will use moving
forward and much more just a reminder
nothing said on this podcast is a
solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with Andrew and I hope
you enjoy the conversation too
thank you
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we're joined by
Andrew Lawrence the CEO of senso he and
his team are building decentralized key
management for organizational control
how are you doing today Andrew Dylan I'm
great and uh great to be on the podcast
a pleasure to be here yeah I'm very
excited to kind of dig into your
background and what you're working on
now so to kind of jump into the deep end
you have a really diverse background in
financial markets so can you just kind
of give us a brief overview of what your
story arc has been like throughout your
career sure I'd be happy to do that
thanks so maybe I can start at present
and work my way back a little bit so as
you mentioned I'm the CEO and I'm also
the co-founder at senso and
interestingly my other co-founder is
Charlie Walden who's the CTO here and
Charlie and I unbelievably have been
together uh pretty much on on for about
25 years which I like to say it's very
it's a very fruitful partnership because
between the two of us we actually have a
complete brain which is it comes in very
handy but uh we also fortunately between
the two of us have had a number of
successes including two companies that
have gone from uh garage to us IPO and
the third one which is a fintech that we
did which was called longitude where we
re-engineered the way that derivatives
markets work at the microstructure level
and we ended up selling that company the
Goldman Sachs and that company is
currently operated uh by NASDAQ and I
encountered crypto way back in 2012 and
without belaboring the details when I
first read the Bitcoin white paper as I
like to say when I read it the third
time and I finally understood it mostly
I realized that there was a very
powerful rhyme between how blockchains
are organized and mutualized balances
and credit and how we mutualize Market
risk in this longitude company that we
sold to gold and and that sent me
straight down the rabbit hole and I
thought to myself if we had had an
encodable blockchain at that time but
instead of teaming up we teamed up with
places like Goldman Sachs Deutsche Bank
Global Enterprises with this company
longitude because we didn't have any
credit right we were a tech company and
they collateralized our transactions and
really crazily enough back in 2012 after
I read the white paper I said to myself
wow if we had had an encodable
blockchain we could just stamp these
transactions into into a blockchain and
that was of course eight years before D5
summer or anything of that nature and so
the truth be told is that idea back then
was totally loony in some ways but it
was also a fascinating time in crypto
because in 2013 I went out and met with
a number of the uh core devs on the
Bitcoin project to discuss modifying the
protocol to allow things such as this
and back then Believe It or Not people
were actually talking about doing things
like that with the Bitcoin protocol and
of course we know the story since then
and that hasn't been the case and that
that got my interest and then Charlie
and I decided crypto was compelling
enough we were going to do a company in
the space and that led to senso so that
was hopefully not too much but uh kind
of like my recent trajectory I would say
no it sounds like you got into Bitcoin
during a really interesting time
especially I hope I'm not doxing you but
being based out of New York there was a
lot of activity that was going on in you
know the early 2010s uh the late odds so
were these like kind of pre-bit license
days were was there still just kind of
an air of excitement were the core devs
at the time open to outside feedback for
sure and and by the way I mean I want to
characterize my role here properly and
not over emphasize it right I was on
certainly very much on the periphery of
any of those discussions but to your
point I think which is very important as
you characterize it the community was
very open to those discussions and it
was very very small and you know I think
the community now remains fascinating
the crypto Community but that back then
it was it was really just kind of very
unusual because it was so nascent I
would say so you kind of cut off your
your story arc um talking about the
business that you helped build and then
eventually sell and that was very micro
oriented but prior to that you also
spent some time at Pantera Capital which
is famous for its macro perspective and
your time there was prior to the launch
of its Bitcoin fund so what were the
insights that you picked up at the macro
level during your time at Pantera and
did those play any role into your aha
moment for Bitcoin beyond the
programmability you were just speaking
about yeah sure sure well yeah as you
know before crypto Dan and I were
Partners at Pantera and before that I
had a career on Wall Street doing you
know quantitative Finance Market making
and things of that nature so Pantera was
Global macro fund at the time and of
course uh one of the great experiences
to live through was the global financial
crisis of
2008-2009 and uh as I think Hank Paulson
the treasury secretary at the time said
it was pretty harrowing if you didn't
happen to live through it even reading
it doesn't do it justice but Hank
Paulson said in a private conversation
and I remember this well he said this
would be really interesting if it
weren't happening to me which I thought
was a was a great line but but certainly
I think you know those of us who grew up
studying or trained or even formally
understanding 20th century economic
theory and then confronting the global
financial crisis and all what I would
describe as the Extraordinary Measures
that that the government uh undertook in
order to save the financial system and I
think it's not exaggerated that they did
say to the financial system but all
these taboos of what was acceptable and
unacceptable Behavior for policy makers
who are successfully you know in real
time sort of just pushed and then pushed
over the limit and of course that
created a tremendous amount of unease
and people who had been in these markets
traditionally as to where would where it
would end up and I do think also led to
some hardened philosophical positions on
the role of government in the economy
and you know I would say I'm in the
softer camp on that I I have a pretty
open mind to both policy making as well
as rule of government but but I also
trading classical economics as well and
so to some extent you know the famous
birth of Bitcoin in that environment and
to me it's not a coincidence either
right I mean if the same code had been
released five years earlier it probably
would have just died right and so you
know in the Genesis block that famous
times of London article and everything
so I always like to say no matter how
and this is just my personal opinion no
matter how remarkable you think the
invention was it's a miracle that it
actually works the way it did now other
people have different opinions they say
it's inevitable because it's so
brilliant but I think I'm more of a
realist but it was this blending of some
of my experience in traditional finance
and thinking about you know
philosophically about government and
economics and policy combined with some
of the stuff that I did in fintech
before that sort of drove me right into
uh crypto and and I'm grateful because
um of all the stuff that I've done in my
career I would say crypto Remains the
most interesting thing that certainly
backs up my stances while I left a
previous career in the urban planning
field to go into crypto full-time in
2018 and haven't looked back since uh
there's always something new every day I
think it's funny that you touched upon
the dichotomy of a believing that the US
government needed to step in to
essentially bail us out of catastrophe
in the in the financial crisis in 2008
and I've read uh Andrew W sorkin's book
which chronicled everything so very very
fascinating to hear you talk about that
but also to recognize that this
peer-to-peer protocol was something that
was born of the times so it's an
interesting dichotomy you hold where on
one hand you recognize that there needed
to be intervention and on the other hand
it's kind of like a duh moment that this
technology would be released the time it
did so I'm curious then since it sounds
like
um and allowed me to just generalize
that maybe you were ahead of the boat on
a majority of your peers that were
working in financial traditional markets
who might have scoffed or written off
Bitcoin particularly in its first few
years when it was seen as a hyper
speculative internet token that could
only be traded on Shady exchanges what
was it that kind of like clicked for you
immediately and I want to kind of like
parlay this into the work that you're
doing at senso because Bitcoin is
inherently something that requires
self-sovereignty and kind of digging
into and understanding on your own so
what was it from that perspective where
people had to learn about holding this
and what was its sort of weight and
significance compared to the other
things you were seeing on Wall Street
there's so much in there there's some so
much great stuff in there thanks
personally I I want to issue a uh an
admission which is that someone
approached me an acquaintance approached
me in 2010 with the white paper and I
have to say in full disclosure I
completely dismissed him and told him to
leave me alone because I had a day job
and I had stuff that was more important
with real money so uh not like I just
had the light bulb go off immediately
and then you know of course in 2012 I
Revisited it and finally got a little
smarter and you know if I could put it
in you know you you cited uh really
helpfully and highlighted some of the
things that drove me towards crypto but
I think another thing that really away
from that which is very simple which is
important and I think you know my ex
partner Dan Moorhead has highlighted
this on many many occasions and
particularly at that time was that even
if you thought there was a glimmer of
hope that the Bitcoin project would
succeed the asymmetry in the uh outcomes
was just you know so tremendous I I
can't even remember what the total
market cap was at that time I recall
Bitcoin was trading around 75 bucks or
so so it was a pretty small number and
so if you've ever been in the markets
and I think you do have to be open to
new ideas and thoughts and also the I
think philosophically has to resonate
with you somewhat the project which it
did but if you combine all of that with
the fact that if you were a uh and if
you excuse the expression you were a
gambler in a private life the prop
overall proposition would appeal to you
and also I would say as well I was very
fortunate at the time that I had other
professional personal acquaintances who
had a had a similar sort of uh similar
sort of take on things that being said I
think there was a tremendous amount of
resistance and from tremendous amount of
resistance Still Remains may be somewhat
diminished by the erosion of the years
on people's egos with regards to this
but there was a tremendous amount of
resistance that it was just a
bone-headed thing to even be considering
and I'm going to say one more thing we
can get more substantive talk about what
we're doing which is that the truth be
told is when it comes to money money is
one of the most great one of the
greatest abstractions that has ever been
invented by humanity and it's also one
of the most difficult for people to
apprehend and comprehend
um and it's faith-based but it also has
objective criteria as to why it should
be good or not and so it was very
difficult I think early on in getting
anyone who believed in the old system
even if they did not understand it to
buy into a new system so those are some
of my thoughts on just the general Leafs
of the questions you asked and then with
regards to some of the things that we're
working on so thank you for asking about
them you know they do surround and you
know they are motivated by not just the
ideals of self-soverignity and
decentralization but but what we believe
to be the necessity of implementing
those tenants because you know our
belief is is that absent that this whole
project is not going to succeed because
those are necessary elements of the
marketplace and the ecosystems is how I
would put it if that I I don't know if
that resonates with you or not but
that's kind of my opinion no it totally
does and something I really wanted to
pull on and you did a you did a great
job on touching it is the wrapping our
head around what money is and the value
uh the transactions of value and and
what media can be used to transact value
and I think this is a great kind of
segue into what senso is because uh
historically you know no matter what
civilization we're talking about whether
it's puka shells or gold or dollar bills
there's always been an entity that held
on to these kind of media of value as
they accrued if we go back to like the
Dark Ages it was even food and wheat
right you would have your farmers put
wheat into the castle and then the
castle would distribute it so as time
has gone on and just economic models and
systems have become more robust and
required more and more of these
institutions that have provided custody
for these various different media of
value why is that important today and
how come this digital assets that have
this inherent self-sovereignty how come
there need to be the like entities like
senso that are providing these services
for larger institutions and maybe this
is an opportunity to kind of like
explain to our audience why an
institution needs a custodial provider
in order to manage its digital assets
sure maybe I could just wind it on back
a little bit and go to First principles
and answer that question before we
discuss about what we're doing so you
know what's interesting is you've noted
is that we have a system that has been
set up that theoretically is
decentralized and self-sovereign however
as it turns out as the system developed
in particular for organizations which is
the is the user base that censo is
concerned with all organizations
virtually all organizations uh used
centralized service providers in order
to manage their assets and their keys
and those service providers are either
regulated custodian friends
non-regulated custodians or providers of
services like uh you know smart custody
Solutions like what are called MPC or
multi-party computation uh Solutions and
all of those Solutions require a third
party to control your keys or your key
shards and run code that generally is
code closed Source not open source and
also requires trusting those
organizations which seems like a
complete you know irony and it actually
is so we have to ask ourselves why is
that the case and I think there are two
reasons uh in my mind anyway they've
come to mind the first one is really a
simple one it's a no-brainer right
regulations required okay so if you're
an institution you require a regulated
custodian that's the end of it you know
you don't need we don't need to have any
further discussion on that however I
would say that even in the U.S although
I think most institutions that are
regulated air on the side of
cautiousness that is a still an open
issue with regards to the law that is
not a settled issue there's some stuff
pending before the SEC and in addition
to which five or six years ago when
these custodians and these custody
providers arose these centralized
entities it totally wasn't an issue so
that's not the reason even though it may
be a reason upcoming now so what is the
reason well the reason is it's a good
one which is that people needed a
solution to Key Management
user experience as it were the the keys
were very complex to manage they were
fraught with risk as everybody knows and
there were tremendous vulnerabilities
associated with them right and so you
think of it like if you're you know if
you're an individual User it's
complicated already because you have to
make decisions on your self-custody
solution and how you're going to hold
your recovery material but if you're an
institution it becomes infinitely more
complicated because you have a variety
of people in user roles those user roles
may be very nuanced it's very difficult
to control that and so what people just
said is here let me give you my keys you
put them in a draw and when I don't
don't pick up the phone unless Jim calls
right and so that was the solution that
people went to and it was meaningful and
I don't mean to diminish it at all it
was absolutely necessary or no one was
going to be able to operate in the space
that being said it does require trust it
does require someone else holding your
keys it tends to be expensive
um non-decentralized and and fraught
with risk and you know we don't even
have to go too far man all we have to do
is take a look at the news flow for the
last month and you know what we've got
we've got Atomic wallet we've got Prime
trust we've got floating Point group
we've got multi-chain these are all
supposedly
incredibly secure Technologies and
entities that have basically lost
substantial amounts of their customers
funds and so the idea deal I think that
we should shoot for and frankly I think
the one that was necessary in order to
make the project work is to actually
decentralize and provide salinity to
users whether they're individuals or
organizations and that is the specific
area that senso has focused on and it's
a project that we've been working on for
the last two years very cool you've been
working on this project for two years
basically you've been part of the end of
a bull cycle in the beginning of a bear
cycle so when you guys are talking with
institutions potential clients uh just
having you know informal meetings how
over the past two years have the
conversations from these institutions
side entities how have they changed with
the kind of turbulence in the market are
they undeterred because they've been
building for years or are they more
cautious now after seeing some of the
calamities of 2022 whether I said both
so it's kind of interesting right so our
user base uh you know include what would
be described as institutions corporate
treasurers hedge funds things of that
nature anybody any organization that
requires like two or more approvers or
key management amongst those people and
then also NATO web 3 companies so Dows
web 3 companies foundations treasuries
things of that nature so I'm going to
actually the latter guys let's not let's
leave alone for this portion of this
question so the question is how about
The Outsiders right the Trad fire guys
as they call them what happened there
and the truth be told is my observation
is that they found themselves in very uh
fortunate circumstances because back in
the Q4 of 2021 everybody was starting to
go to committee as you do in these
traditional firms to actually get
approval to get into crypto and these
organizations move very slowly relative
to crypto terms and so by the time they
moved they got through the committee
pipeline crypto was getting decimated
and I think 90 percent of these guys
just said oh you know what that wasn't
such a good idea let's forget it for now
and all kidding aside that's that's kind
of what happened and in a way it I
personally think it's kind of a blessing
to the crypto ecosystem because you know
in the fourth quarter of last year when
we were kind of on the lows in the post
FTX FTX situation I was starting to
speak to some of these institutional
investors for the first time in a while
and I was expecting oh man I was just
expecting all sorts of negativity but
the reaction was actually the exact
opposite and it may inform like what's
going on with BlackRock now so I'd go
speak to people and they'd be like they
missed the whole thing because they
never got out of committee so most of
the crypto natives they were like oh my
head hurts you know this is terrible I
need to go to a bar again and the like
the institutional traffic guys were like
hey this seems like a good buying
opportunity here at Bitcoin fifteen
thousand right I mean it was kind of
crazy and they missed the whole thing
and I think the other thing was because
of the fact that they didn't have active
positions you know as you and I both
know there was a lot of ugliness in 2022
I mean the price action was terrible but
like the stories in some ways many of
them unfortunately were worse and if
you're not really invested in the space
you don't follow it that closely right
and so all these guys they kind of
missed the whole show they missed the
emotional pain they missed the financial
pain and so I do think that we're we're
coming out of this pretty strong I still
think we have a good distance to go I
think if this BlackRock ETF is approved
and I am no expert Insight on that
whatsoever uh but if it does I think
it's it's going to cause a Renaissance
in not immediately jumping into the
market but I think what I'll describe it
as kind of going back to committee again
like we saw back at the end of 2021.
it's it's surprising right it's
certainly was counter-intuitive to the
what I thought the reaction would be for
many of these institutions yeah I mean
isn't the old adage to to buy when
there's blood in the streets yeah
exactly and if you just wake up at that
point it's perfect and it's also kind of
a gift and a curse that uh larger scale
institutions have a sort of molasses
like uh speed because of the inherent
bureaucracy that ties them down but much
like Bitcoin and and that being
successful for that protocol how long it
takes for something to get through to
update it it could be a feature not a
bug so something that kind of I would
say go as far as was a big aha moment
for me was when I was discussing uh with
the previous guest that a lot of
institutional clients will uh hold gold
as a part of their portfolio and that
you don't necessarily have a pension
holding literal gold in a safe at their
headquarters that there's a custodian
that provides these Solutions and it's
Loomis uh you buy the gold and then
lumens holds and stores it for you and
charges a fee this is going to be
similar for digital assets and the only
thing that is different between a
commodity like gold which is physical
and a digital asset is of course that
it's native on the internet but you do
get to hold your keys you do get to hold
your coins and that's one of the beauty
one of the things that makes this asset
class really unique and interesting and
so for the half of your clients that are
the institution side they do need to
have this counterparty that they can
blame I guess or ask to custody those
keys and so this is where senso steps in
there is a multi-pronged approach that
integrates a little bit of
decentralization and potentially a
little bit of centralization maybe this
is an opportunity for you to give our
listeners like an elevator pitch of what
senso is and then maybe we can dig into
a little bit more of the specifics sure
I'd be happy to and thanks for the
opportunity so we're a technology
provider censo is a technology provider
and what we enable is our customers who
are users who are organizations to
actually be completely Sovereign on
their keys and their assets while the
technology itself eliminates as I may
have mentioned earlier all of the
complexity and vulnerability of that key
management and what that means is is
that we have a technology that is
actually I like to say about sovereignty
uh it's just my this is my little hobby
horse there's no such thing as
qualifying sovereignty you're either
Sovereign or you're not it's like being
somewhat pregnant there's no such thing
and I think it's sustained with
sovereignty and so all of our software
which involves all the key handling uh
the software is all open source and it
is all decentralized as well which means
that the software runs in our clients
our own Hardware that they own and they
control their keys no one else can
extract track the keys in fact they
can't even extract the keys themselves
but they can use them which makes it
very safe and those keys speak to policy
engines that rely that reside on chain
so on like the ethereum protocol and the
polygon protocol and the like and there
is a trustless connection between those
keys in users mobile phones that are
encrypted with Device keys and the
phones HSM which can't be exfiltrated
and they can sign things and
authenticate themselves and they talk to
these contracts which get deployed on
their behalf by our technology but which
once again is under their complete
control they can't be upgraded by us
they can't be tampered by us and they're
fully open source they're fully open
source and audited and so our users
really do have complete Serenity but the
magic sauce really for us is that
normally when you have this sovereignty
as we spoke earlier is that then you got
like this key material and this recovery
material and geez you know what do I do
with this is this is dangerous in and of
itself and what we've done is we've done
some interesting things with
cryptography such that everything is
seedless so I would say I were running a
hedge fund and I had a couple colleagues
and Dylan you decided to join the hedge
fund and we wanted you to be a signer
you would download the senso app there
would be a root seed a keys put on your
phone uh they would be encrypted with
for example the device keys from our
phones which are on the secure enclave
and exported no one would actually have
any complete set of private material and
none of it is unencrypted and then if
you went out to a bar and you lost your
phone and you came in the next day you
said geez I didn't back this up with any
seed phrase right it looked like magic
but now I'm in trouble because I lost my
key we're gonna have a brick company uh
we can actually reconstitute that by
doing a multi-approver transaction and
cryptographically reassembling that
together and it goes back on your new
phone identical key but and encrypted
and fully operational again and so
really this is the piece whom I believe
to have been the missing piece for
self-custody particularly for
organizations and can you maybe just
since a lot of our audience is this is
and and we're not like a technical
oriented show where we dig deep into the
cryptography and the mathematics behind
it and everything but maybe uh at a
surface level could you just explain why
this is significant specifically from
the point of view that a lot of larger
scale Enterprise and entities will have
multiple individuals that work for the
company that are capable of signing off
transactions so could you just maybe
share how senso provided met that like
product Market fit and why it's so
important to be able to add and remove
users from the ability for a company to
have signers on behalf of it yeah yeah
and maybe I can take a step back for one
second and then attack the question
directly on which is that you know aside
as you said aside from all the
cryptography and everything and you know
the truth be told is I listen to
podcasts as well I consume them as well
and you know you hear these guys talking
about you know shamir's secret sharing
versus like you know MPC TSS signature
generation protocols and you just want
to blow your brains out right so the
really we should think about these
things in very common sense terms like
do you have your keys or does someone
else have your keys are your keys
managed with open source software or
closed Source software and then finally
in the case of an organization as you
said okay does the organization itself
have control over the keys and the roles
that different people in the
organization play which of course is
compliant with how almost every
organization runs now not doing crypto
right it's like different people have
different roles or is it like every
signer has their own metamask and they
have their own like private material
running around which of course you
couldn't run Goldman Sachs that way nor
should you run any organization that way
and so what we've done with our uh
software within the organization and our
solution is to reconcile what I would
describe as the nuanced roles that
different parties play Within the
organization and the roles they have as
key signers and making sure that the
Primacy in the whole relationship is the
organization right and just to give you
a very simple example if Tim Cook goes
down in a plane crash it's not like they
say hey we're closing Apple it's over
the company's over right the company is
an abstraction that lives through any
well-described as mortality event I use
that in a stylized fence way not like an
actual mortality of any or all the
individuals within the organization but
with crypto traditionally if you've got
six guys with metamasks and they have
all their private material and they do
go to go down into play and crash you're
dead and so what we did is we've created
a system where the organization persists
even in a mortality event of all of the
members of the organization and that's
an absolute critical element and one
that really has not been addressed
except once again by providers who have
centralized solutions that require trust
and is this a system you're you're
talking about called the hierarchical
key management system Okay cool so
you're nodding along you're saying yes
so this is something that I think
differentiates senso from a lot of maybe
other entities that you're competing
against for the same type of clients so
how does maybe like an Eli 5 explain
like I'm five
um in a consumable way how hierarchical
Key Management differs from a technical
solution like multi-party computation or
NPC so multi-party computation does have
a hierarchical element to it so you can
have nuanced roles but once again the
cost of that is actually centralization
and Trust however if you don't want to
have decentralization and Trust which is
the laudable goal you could use a multi
what they call a multi-sig contract and
the most common one known runs on
ethereum it's called safe uh formerly
knows is safe and a nose is safe it has
great decentralization right and it has
great policy engine and in fact we use
many of those components happily in our
solution for our evm uh contracts but it
has no key management which means that
if there are five signers on a multi-sig
contract they each have their own keys
and they are sovereign over those keys
themselves the organization has no as
you would put it hierarchical control
and what we've done is we've built a
system of managing those keys as a group
by the organization in mobile devices
such that the organization can have that
hierarchical control where they can be
org admins that set policies that affect
how those keys can be used and by whom
and importantly how those privileges can
be revoked or replaced by the
organization itself and so it's for the
first time bringing that level of key
functionality to a fully decentralized
organizational element we've had
decentralized organizational element but
there hasn't been any of what we call
Key Management or key abstraction
associated with it I think that this is
the perfect time in the history of
technology for a product like senso to
exist another thing that kind of stuck
out to me for the ease of use of the
solution you guys are building is that
end users will be using their mobile
phone to do biometric confirmation so
could you just also share a little bit
more about the role that a mobile phone
plays in the senso ecosystem and maybe
just kind of give a brief overview or an
example of what the workflow will look
like when someone is indeed performing a
transaction on behalf of their company
so we do use mobile phones and the
reason we use mobile phones is
personally uh they are the most secure
individual Computing advice device in
the world all the phones that we support
have what are called you know hsm's
Hardware security modules in them where
Keys cannot be extracted from those
modules right so they are ubiquitous and
they are incredibly secure and they can
also tie users identity through biometry
to their key signing these are all
absolutely critical and useful elements
and so we have two pieces of our
application we have a web app to be used
in a laptop and that's where
transactions are initiated and relayed
for example to the mobile phone and the
uh and the on-chain contracts the
on-chain contracts are opaque to
customers and then the phones are used
for signing and approving transactions
and what would happen is transaction
will be initiated by a member of an
organization depending upon
authorizations and approval uh criteria
approval notifications will come to the
phones it's an incredibly smooth event
just like getting your Uber notification
you open up the senso app it basically
accesses that key once again the key
cannot be taken off the phone by the
users by the people who run the
organizations it is on there and can
only be accessed by a biometric gating
of the secure enclave and then there are
approvals or denials and then those
transactions are relayed to a blockchain
and so all of the activity takes place
all the all of the activity that
requires trust and sensitivity is
controlled by the user either the phones
or the contracts and it's uh initiated
on the web approve on the mobile app and
there's no other functionality on the
mobile apps as well because we wanted to
ensure that we reduced the attack
service on the phones to an absolute
minimum we're very security-minded yeah
redundancy through Simplicity or
resiliency through Simplicity I should
say so I guess before I ask this next
question would it be fair to say that or
to paint senso and the picture that
though providing custodial solutions for
Institutional Investor like entities
senso has also prioritized being open
source thanks for asking that our
philosophy is all key handling software
should be open source period full stop
and you know The Ledger guys who I have
tremendous respect for I mean what
they've done in the space for
self-custody is just remarkable you may
recall in may they had this situation
where they enabled Ledger recover and
you know they had the poor guys had one
of the worst public relations
experiences in the history of crypto and
from guys who have done really really
great things but the one thing is that
they have subsequently decided to open
source that code base that has to do
with that recovery and my feeling is had
they done that in advance none of this
would actually happen and and customers
users should absolutely demand that all
key handling software is open source
otherwise it's just trust me yeah more
of the same thanks for providing that
context so maybe you can share then a
little bit of the opportunities and the
constraints that have come over the past
few years while building this type of
solutions for the types of clients you
have because I can imagine that the more
high profile a larger scale Enterprise
they might want a little bit of
proprietary information on how their
assets may or may not be secured and
then also you guys are making your
secret sauce so you'll you don't want to
share everything in open source too
quickly so what was it like kind of the
Fine Line Walking that over the past few
years and again what were some of the
opportunities and constraints it's a
great question and you know I do think
that it's difficult and we see this time
and time again if you design a business
around closed source software and then
for whatever reason you are compelled to
open source it it produces tremendous
tension in your business model not
always but generally speaking that's
going to be the case because you've
really designed your whole product and
business model possibly around the fact
that like your product couldn't be
reverse engineered or something right
and so you you can end up really in a
very very difficult situation and uh
it's exceedingly exceedingly painful but
you know we went back I mean I'll tell
you we originally we originally were
building an NPC wallet uh so you know
multi-party computation but as we were
building it and we spent quite a bit of
time on it we said you know this
actually isn't going to cut it because
it's not sufficiently decentralized and
a lot of the code can't be open sourced
and so after about I don't know maybe
eight months of build we just threw it
out and we said okay we've got to be
committed to this other approach and
once you do that I think that you you
can build a product where you say hey
it's going to work for us commercially
even if it is totally open source and In
fairness I will highlight that I
mentioned that there are two portions of
the application that require trusts
which is the mobile phone that has the
key handling software and the on-chain
smart contracts and policy engines and
those speak to each other trustlessly
with only signed transactions but they
are open source but we also have a web 2
back end and front end which is
effectively what we described as a relay
server but it is a relay server with an
incredibly rich and beautiful user
experience and that is closed Source I
mean it's a very large application
anyway it doesn't affect the trust of
the application at all because basically
it's just those transactions are being
encrypted and sent between the keys and
all of the the guts of the operation but
it's there where we can provide users a
really rich experience
um and actually use that potentially
commercially to our our advantage but
that being said I think are we're very
very committed to making sure that
nobody has any components that they have
to rely upon for trusts that aren't open
source I've had conversations in the
past about creating a trust that can
manage a 401k or an IRA on behalf of it
for whatever reason that the the trust
wants to manage it and when it comes to
custodial providers one of the necessary
components for these trusts to be able
to operate under IRS guidelines is to
ensure that there's no unfettered access
to the accounts which essentially means
that let's say the account holder needs
to stop moving their assets because
they're having a conversation with the
law unfettered access would mean that
the custodial provider could stop the
flow of transactions so let's say the
clients the institutional client that
you're working with for some reason the
IRS wants to stay to that or another
governmental entity wants to State you
cannot access these assets for now
through senso is there a way that there
can be like a way to override any
transactions or anything like that and
provide unfettered access to the assets
that are being stored via the census
census solution yeah so I mean I think
this whole idea of censorship is an
interesting one and where people can get
very exercised over it and
understandably so so in our case users
could access directly the smart
contracts with their keys without going
through our relay server if they uh
wanted to but you know bear in mind and
look I shouldn't be you know I shouldn't
be in any way uh compromising my own
position but presumably uh at some point
if they were us-based persons and the
IRS is chasing you down I'm sure there
are a lot of ways they can make your
life miserable as well but in the case
of senso there are alternate is to using
our relay server which is also essential
because as you can think about it Dylan
we also have to provide for forget about
what if the IRS comes out what if senso
disappears for whatever reason users
have to be able to access their assets
so they can do so though the experience
of accessing their assets is a little
more cumbersome than if we were up and
running so I would describe it yeah I
really appreciate that you bring that up
the immutability of these assets that we
store on chain we have to have an ego
check particularly when we're running a
startup and putting all of our energy
and time into it that sometimes
businesses just shudder and people's
assets will live forever on chain so
it's really interesting to hear how
senso has addressed this and also
provided for alternatives to access this
I guess information directly on chain
it's really great to hear that a company
is thinking about immutability in this
way so I'm kind of curious then how does
senso go about choosing the the chains
that you guys work with I know you
mentioned polygon and ethereum earlier
but are there other networks that you're
also exploring how do you choose what to
what networks to explore do you do
internal review yourself or do you base
it off of the conversations you're
having with your clients yeah well you
know it's a little bit of both and I
would say you know whatever the
Zeitgeist might be so as you're well
aware we rewind the clock a couple of
years the prevailing wisdom was that we
were going to have a reasonably
substantial number of competing and uh
substantive l1s and that they all had
different flavors and I think there was
a guy from dragonfly Capital who said
you can think of these different
blockchains as being different cities
with different characteristics and the
like and of course there's been a big
big debate whether or not that's going
to be the case and you'll have this big
horizontal perfusion of blockchains with
different characteristics with
underlying Basel one characteristics or
you said you're going to have a vertical
stack on top of obviously a ethereum and
we had actually built on Solana and
Bitcoin as well we had a very big Solana
project that we we have finished that
we're not releasing it at this time and
it appears at least for the time being
that the evm crowd has gotten sufficient
gravity that I think that is going to be
the ecosystem that we focus on in the
near and intermediate term and so we're
launching on ethereum we've launched on
ethereum and polygon we're going to
round out the balance of the substantial
EVMS over the course of the coming next
few months and then I think we're going
to reassess but right now it seems like
he sent you know he had this explosion
outwards and now we have the vacuum
sucking everything back in and you know
I would say I just returned from
etcc in Paris last week and I mean it's
the the community is so serious and
substantive and like full of toothsome
work that's being done it's really
encouraging to see what's going on so
aside from any like pragmatic being a
business guy type thing I think it's
really encouraging to be uh involved
with people in that space so that's
interesting that you mentioned ECC last
week just armchair quarterbacking the
thing I kind of heard come out of that
event was just the prominence of the of
zero knowledge Roll-Ups and proofs and
products so I guess to play Devil's
Advocate because I do appreciate the
metaphor you use with the explosion and
then everything kind of compounding back
into itself to play Devil's Advocate
though let's say that 2017 happens again
and 2021 happens again and these
networks get clogged do you think that
there will be another outward look
towards alt l1s we saw it happen in 2017
with like Quantum and Neo and uh stellar
and then we saw it in 2022 with Solana
and Avalanche yada yada yada you know
you can you can mention all the ones
that you want you guys have already
built for Solana and are opting not to
release in that way so are you guys
going to also be paying attention to
three years down the road when
potentially the evm ecosystem becomes a
bit congested again are you guys
thinking about being Nimble enough to be
on your toes to to add support for
another blockchain or are you guys just
doubling down on providing the most
amount of services as you can for evm
chains yeah well there you said a couple
of interesting things there like so
firstly predicting that far in the
future in crypto is crazy right I'm just
trying to get a grip on what's going on
right now uh look we're re we're
reasonably Nimble and we're not
philosophically like we're not
philosophical ethereum Warriors right so
we look we provide key management and
the keys that we produce in these phones
can support any chain and it's a key
management and self-custody services so
we're totally open I mean the funny
thing is that you said I think it's just
like hilarious to me is that you know
you said am I paying attention I go I
you know I wish I could pay attention
there's so much stuff that goes on in
crypto every day that you come in it's
like I got to figure out what not to pay
attention to so I can get my job done so
I I think we're super open to any of
that I mean for us to enable new support
what we need to do just technically
speaking is to build a smart contract on
that chain that can speak to our phones
and then hook in all of like the RPC and
other relayer and data layer protocols
and stuff it's actually not that
complicated it's not trivial or you know
resources constrained like everybody
else but it's not that complicated but
if you ask me right now today over the
next three months whether you know what
I would do I'm probably going to just
keep building on evm yeah it's really
funny that you bring that up that in the
blockchain space alone there have been
in the past few years so many verticals
that have emerged that you have to
really focus on one vertical to filter
out the signal through the noise and now
we have defy nfts GameFly decentralized
identity Roll-Ups all so much stuff out
there that it's almost impossible to
keep up to date with what's going on
with everything so I guess then I'm a
little bit curious what are the ways in
which your clients are using blockchain
networks and crypto are you finding that
they want to participate in defy are
they doing Dows nft just simple custody
Solutions what are the ways in which
your various different clients because
you mentioned you have some that are
tradfi-esque and then very web 3-esque
so what are the ways that you guys have
to be nimble to the uses that your
clients demand of your custodial
solution yeah so well I can put it to
you this way you know we built out a lot
of collectible and nft capability about
like six to eight months ago no one's
using that
you know particularly given our
clientele base which are like the
organizations and the like uh for the
most part no one's using that so uh that
was something that seemed like it was
going to be essential
um don't regret we build it I guess but
you know no one's using that and so we
have a lot of people who really want
very secure and simple custody and key
management and actually are very low
frequency but are very happy with the
solution and then also Defy is a big
area and we enable defy pretty
seamlessly we're integrated uh We've
integrated a wallet Connect into our
application you know while a connect
just uh they just deprecated wallet
connect one and now they're onto wallet
connect two and we're also we actually
have a partnership uh that we recently
got into with consensus and we will uh
very likely also have a metamask
institutional available for our
customers very shortly as well because
once again we really believe a choice
for our customers perfect and I'm not
sure whether you can disclose specific
names if you're customers and clients
are but maybe could you if you can't
could you give some examples of the
types of clients that they might
represent or the types of brands or
Industries they might be in sure I mean
I think there are a lot of them are
financial and or native crypto and you
know from I think our perspective our
clients generally are not like Goldman
Sachs like we really didn't design the
product for Goldman Sachs it could
support Goldman Sachs in many ways it
has the Integrity but it's really not
designed for that so they're you know
what I'll describe as affiliations
organizations or financial companies
that have needs for two to ten signers
on custody Solutions who want to you
know super secure easy to use
self-custody solution so they're in that
sort of small to mid-range type at type
universe is how I would put it perfect
and kind of uh zooming out before we
wrap up we were mentioning earlier on
Bayside of Denver one of my favorite
conferences every year here is eth
Denver I personally always feel like
there's at least one takeaway that I can
come away with from that event I'm sure
you feel similar with the ECC for
example with me this year at East Denver
it was in March of this year this was
before the SEC hearing and there was
still just a lot of regulatory and
Clarity the fear degreed index was quite
fear oriented on bitcoin buying so I
walked away from that event stayed uh
kind of afraid that there's a brain
drain of crypto companies and blockchain
companies in the U.S who are choosing to
opt to locate and build outside the
states now my thesis is a little bit
different than it was in March but at
East Denver that was my main walk away
from from that event what would you say
was your man walk away from ECC which
just happened last week in Paris yeah so
I would say there are probably a couple
but I'm only going to go with one as you
requested so what you really see is you
know I would say the hardcore
infrastructure sure that is necessary to
enable adequate user experience is being
built and I think you know technically
that would be called account abstraction
and also newly now for the first time
they're using the term key abstraction
which is really the thing that censo has
been working on for the last two years
or so this key abstraction and these are
the things that are going to actually
make the user experience whether you're
an organization or an individual
actually acceptable so we can actually
finally have some realistic adoption so
you felt away feeling uh like you guys
are poised to be in the right place at
the right time I did and it's a nice
feeling to have because as a small
businessman you don't always have that
opportunity absolutely so what are some
of the next steps for senso and what are
the types of projects you're interested
in hearing from The Next Step for us are
just to build awareness we have
Partnerships that we're we're uh we just
recently partnered with I mentioned
consensus and also with chain link we're
really super excited about both of those
Partnerships because they're super high
quality organizations and they're
committed to decentralization I think
stay tuned we're going to have another
couple of announcements uh of equal
importance over the course of the next
couple of months and our goal is to
solidify and deepen those relationships
where we really feel we have high
quality people committed to
decentralization and actually get those
ecosystem participants to be uh
utilizing senso and we're having some
success in that and I think those are
the things that we're really focused on
right now and what's the best way for
people to reach out to you or to reach
out to senso I think the easiest way is
our website is uh
senso.co also since we do deal with Trad
Five Guys we are on LinkedIn we have a
prominent presence on LinkedIn which is
embarrassing to admit on a uh crypto
podcast so my apologies as well and so I
think those are two very reliable ways
to get a hold of us I'll do a Shameless
plug we've been building out our
presence on on LinkedIn as well for the
smart economy podcast so it's nice to
know we're in good company uh one of the
key themes this year that I've been
really enjoying having conversations
with folks like you who are rubbing
elbows with financial institutions is
that despite the calamities of 2022 that
the institutions have been here they've
been interested and they've been seeking
Builders who are creating Solutions such
as yours so thank you so much for having
this conversation it just further
solidified these great conversations
I've been having about the industry that
you're building in and for leveraging
and utilizing this technology so it was
great to spend an hour chatting with you
Andrew and I look forward to keeping up
with the great progress that you guys
make at senso Dylan thank you very much
I'm really a great pleasure both
speaking with you and getting to know
you so thank you it was great cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was really
interesting to dive into the nuances
behind how Federal intervention was
necessary during the financial crisis of
2008 but also the importance of
self-sovereignty of our digital assets
today it was also refreshing to hear
Andrew touch on the point that their
clients assets might remain unchain
longer than the company is around and
that they've built for their contracts
to outlive the company I also couldn't
help but nod my head in agreement when
Andrew said quote all key handling
should be open sourced end quote which
allows everyone to verify the security
of the protocols that they're using to
store their assets on that note I want
to thank you so much for taking the time
to listen to the smart economy podcast
if you liked what you heard and want to
support the show please keep Neo news
today in mind when voting for your Neo
Council represent as part of Neo's
governance process we appreciate you and
look forward to catching you next time